feat: improvements on glossary Color Space (#33407)
mdn/content: files/en-us/glossary/color_space/index.md

{{GlossarySidebar}}

> **Color spaces** are named organizations of colors for underlying color models of coordinate-based color arrangements. A color model defines how the components of a color (for example, the `h`, `w`, and `b` channels of an [`hwb()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/hwb) color) relate to a color space. Color spaces are mostly three-dimensional grids that represent colors. Each dimension (or axis) corresponds to a different channel. Colors can be expressed in multiple color spaces, and can be transformed from one color space to another, while still looking the same.

Author: CMYK, e.g. is a 4-dimensional space.

given [Hermann Grassmann](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hermann_Grassmann)'s concept, the color space is a n-dimensional space

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Color spaces** are named organizations of colors for underlying color models of coordinate-based color arrangements. A color model defines how the components of a color (for example, the `h`, `w`, and `b` channels of an [`hwb()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/hwb) color) relate to a color space. Most color spaces are three- or four- dimensional grids that represent colors. Each dimension (or axis) corresponds to a different channel. Colors can be expressed in multiple color spaces, and can be transformed from one color space to another, while still looking the same.
```

Color spaces categorize and define specific ranges of colors. Each color space is defined by a mathematical model and associated rule set. Each color space has a defined {{glossary("Gamut", "gamut")}}, which refers to the specific range of colors it can represent. These rules enable consistent and reproducible color representation across different devices and software.

> The _sRGB_ color space (standard red, green, and blue) was created for the web, but we are no longer limited to this color space. [CSS Color Module Level 4](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-color-4) specifies several predefined color spaces, and [CSS Color Module Level 5](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-color-5/) goes further, specifying features for defining custom color spaces.

Author: link cleanup (the official link points to css-color-4)

<img width="324" alt="Screenshot 2024-05-04 at 4 24 58 PM" src="https://github.com/mdn/content/assets/41184947/5a36135e-ac05-4dfe-aa63-48d48b13bafc">

### RGB color spaces

> RGB is a color model that represents colors as mixtures of three underlying components — red, green, and blue color channels — that create various hues when combined. sRGB, or "Standard RGB", is the underlying color space for {{Glossary("RGB")}} colors. sRGB is intended to serve the needs of PC and the {{glossary("world wide web", "Web")}} based imaging systems.

Author: not just on Web

> The aim of this color space is to complement the current color management strategies by enabling a third method of handling color in the operating systems, device drivers and the Internet that utilizes a simple and robust device independent color definition. 
>
> https://www.w3.org/Graphics/Color/sRGB

There are several RGB color spaces, like the _Adobe RGB_ color space, that can represent a wider {{glossary("gamut")}} of color than the _sRGB_ color space. The coordinates in _sRGB_ and _Adobe RGB_ (`a98-rgb`) are different. There are many ways to describe the RGB components of a color. In {{Glossary("CSS")}} they can be represented as a single 24-bit integer in hexadecimal notation (for example, `#add8e6` is light blue), or in [`rgb()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/rgb) functional notation as three separate numbers between 0 and 255 (for example, `rgb(46 139.5 87)`).

CSS `<color>` values in the sRGB color spaces include {{cssxref("hex-color")}}, {{cssxref("named-color")}}, {{cssxref("color_value/rgb", "rgb()")}}, {{cssxref("color_value/hsl", "hsl()")}} (hue, saturation, lightness), and {{cssxref("color_value/hwb", "hwb()")}} (hue, whiteness, blackness). There are also the `srgb`, `srgb-linear`, `a98-rgb`, and `prophoto-rgb` color spaces for the [`color()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/color) function.

> The HSV (hue, saturation, and value) color space, and its synonym HSB (hue, saturation, and brightness), are represented in CSS as [`hwb()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/hwb). Named colors are simply keywords mapped to specific hex values. Converting these various color notations to sRGB is straightforward mathematically. Note that {{cssxref("&lt;color&gt;","currentcolor","#currentcolor_keyword")}} can be any color, not restricted to sRGB only.

Author: grammatical improvement

Reviewer: I prefer the original, but perhaps with an emdash
```suggestion
The HSV (hue, saturation, and value) color space, and its synonym HSB (hue, saturation, and brightness), are represented in CSS as [`hwb()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/hwb). Named colors are simply keywords mapped to specific hex values. Converting these various color notations to sRGB is straightforward mathematically. Note that {{cssxref("&lt;color&gt;","currentcolor","#currentcolor_keyword")}} can be any color — it is not restricted to sRGB.
```

Lab is a rectangular coordinate system, with a central lightness `L` axis. Positive values along the `a` axis are a purplish red while negative values are the complement: green. Positive values along the `b` axis are yellow and negative are blue/violet. Desaturated colors have small values for `a` and `b` with greater absolute values being more saturated.

> CIELab color functions include {{CSSXref("color_value/lab", "lab()")}} (lightness, a-axis, b-axis) and {{CSSXref("color_value/lch", "lch()")}} (lightness, chroma, hue) as well as {{CSSXref("color_value/oklab", "oklab()")}} and {{CSSXref("color_value/oklch", "oklch()")}}. The lightness values are the same, but `lch()` and `oklch` are polar, cylindrical coordinate systems using polar coordinates `C` (chroma) and `H` (hue) rather than axes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CIELab color functions include {{CSSXref("color_value/lab", "lab()")}} (lightness, a-axis, b-axis) and {{CSSXref("color_value/lch", "lch()")}} (lightness, chroma, hue) as well as {{CSSXref("color_value/oklab", "oklab()")}} and {{CSSXref("color_value/oklch", "oklch()")}}. The lightness values are the same, but `lch()` and `oklch` are polar, cylindrical coordinate systems, that use polar coordinates `C` (chroma) and `H` (hue) rather than axes.
```
